B"H

Book 7

For each week, all the verses of the songs in Books 1-6, rearranged and combined into a single song:



The Rooster is saying,

A maskil by Eitan the Ezrachite.
A michtam, by David.
Now there was a certain man of Ramathaim-zophim,
Now Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam sang on that day, saying.

When the Holy One, blessed be He, comes to the righteous
Listen, O heavens, and I will speak!
In the Garden of Eden, all the trees in the Garden of  Eden
And let the earth hear the words of my mouth!

Scatter their spices, and they rejoice and praise,
To all generations I will make known Your faithfulness with my mouth.
And then He, too, is aroused and praises."
I will sing of the Lord's kindness forever;

Lift up your heads, O gates! And be lifted up,
And David spoke to the Lord the words of this song,
O everlasting doors! And the King of glory shall come in!
The Song of Songs, which is Solomon's.

Lift up your heads, O gates! Lift them up, O everlasting doors!
Then Moses and the children of Israel sang this song to the Lord,
Who is this King of glory? G-d strong and mighty, G-d mighty in battle!"
Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth,

And the King of glory shall come in!
On the day that the Lord delivered him
Who is this King of glory?
G-d of hosts, He is the King of glory, Selah!"

Stand, O righteous ones, and busy yourselves with Torah,
Of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah,
For your love is better than wine.
For I have put my trust in You.

So that your reward will be double in the World-to-Come."
You, [my soul,] have said to God, "You are my Master;
The son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu,
For the fragrance of your goodly oils, Your name is 'oil poured forth.'

I have hoped for Your salvation, O G-d."
From the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul;
Watch over me, O God,
For the sake of the holy ones who lie in the earth,

"How long will you sleep, O sluggard?
Those who hasten after other [gods], their sorrows shall increase;
When will you arise from your sleep?"
I will not offer their libations of blood, nor take their names upon my lips.

Do not love sleep, lest you come to poverty;
And for the mighty-all my desires are fulfilled in their merit.
Open your eyes and you shall be satisfied with bread."
You are not obligated to benefit me."

"It is time to act for G-d; for they have made void Your Torah."
The son of Zuph, an Ephraimite.
Therefore, the maidens loved you.
And they spoke, saying, I will sing to the Lord, for very exalted is He;


B"H




The Hen is saying,

He gives bread to all flesh, for His kindness endures forever."
And he said, "The Lord is my rock and my fortress, and a rescuer to me."
Draw me, we will run after you
When the people offer themselves willingly, bless the Lord.

My lesson will drip like rain;
We will rejoice and be glad in you.
My word will flow like dew;
They have loved you sincerely.

As the heavens, with which You will establish Your faithfulness.
A horse and its rider He cast into the sea.
Like the tents of Kedar, like the curtains of Solomon.
You guide my destiny.

Like storm winds on vegetation and like raindrops on grass.
The king brought me to his chambers.
And he had two wives; the name of the one was Hannah
The Eternal's strength and His vengeance were my salvation;

They made me a keeper of the vineyards;
Even the inheritance pleases me.
My own vineyard I did not keep.
And the name of the second was Peninnah;

And Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.
My mother's sons were incensed against me;
When breaches are made in Israel,
I am black but comely, O daughters of Jerusalem!

Portions have fallen to me in pleasant places;
We will recall your love more fragrant than wine;
The Lord is my allotted portion and my cup;
For I said, "Forever will it be built with kindness;

Do not look upon me [disdainfully] because I am swarthy,
Even at night my conscience instructs me.
For the sun has gazed upon me;
I will bless the Lord, Who counseled me;


B"H

The Dove is saying:

Like a swift or crane, so do I chatter;
Hear, O kings, give ear, O princes;
When I call out the name of the Lord,
Ascribe greatness to our G-d.

The G-d of my father, and I will ascribe to Him exaltation.
The dove says before The Holy One, Blessed be He,
[He is] my savior Who saves me from violence.
To worship and to sacrifice unto Hashem of hosts in Shiloh.

I moan like a dove, my eyes fail with looking upward;
G-d is my rock, under whom I take cover;
This is my G-d, and I will make Him a habitation,
I have set the Lord before me at all times

O G-d, I am oppressed, be my security."
My shield, and the horn of my salvation,
I, to the Lord I shall sing,
And this man went up out of his city from year to year

Tell me, you whom my soul loves,
You will not allow Your pious one to see purgatory.
May my sustenance be as bitter as an olive in Your hands,
Rather than it being sweet as honey through flesh and blood.

"Master of the World!
My support, and my refuge;
Because He is at my right hand, I shall not falter.
For why should I be like one who veils herself

I have made a covenant with My chosen one;
If you do not know, O fairest of women,
Go your way in the footsteps of the flocks
My flesh, too, rests secure.


I have sworn to David, My servant:
At the gathering of the steeds of Pharaoh's chariots
Have I silenced you, my beloved.
Therefore my heart rejoices and my soul exults;

And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas,
Were there priests unto Hashem.
Where do you feed, where do you rest [the flocks] at noon,
Beside the flocks of your companions?"

For You will not abandon
My soul to the grave,
And pasture your kids
Beside the shepherds' dwellings.


B"H

The Eagle is saying,

And You, G-d, Lord of Hosts, Lord of Israel,
A faithful God, without injustice He is righteous and upright.
With praise, I call to the Lord, for from my enemies I shall be saved.
Pharaoh's chariots and his army He cast into the sea,

Awake to [remember] all the nations;
The Lord is a Master of war; the Lord is His Name.
The deeds of the [Mighty] Rock are perfect,
For all His ways are just[ice];

Lord, when You went forth out of Seir,
Do not be gracious to any wicked traitors, sela!"
That he gave to Peninnah his wife,
And to all her sons and her daughters, portions;

I shall sing to the Lord, the G-d of Israel.
Make known to me the path of life,
Your cheeks are comely with rows, your neck with necklaces.
Whose sin is concealed.

And it came to pass upon a day, when Elkanah sacrificed,
With the bliss of Your right hand forever.
Praiseworthy is the man to whom the Lord ascribes no iniquity
And in whose spirit there is no guile.

When I was silent,
While the king was still at his table,
My spikenard gave forth its fragrance.
My bones decayed with my moaning all day long.

Praiseworthy is he whose transgression is forgiven,
That I may be satiated with the joy of Your presence,
We will make you rows of gold with studs of silver.
Of David, a maskil



B"H

The Crane is saying,

Give thanks to G-d with the lyre;
For day and night Your hand was heavy upon me;
Then the heavens will extol Your wonders, O Lord
Behold, you are comely, my beloved;

For the pains of death have encompassed me;
My marrow became [dry] as the droughts of summer, Selah.
And the elite of his officers sank in the Red Sea.
A bundle of myrrh is my beloved to me;

Between my breasts he shall lie.
My sin I made known to You, my iniquity I did not cover.
But unto Hannah he gave a double portion;
For he loved Hannah, but Hashem had shut up her womb.

Streams of scoundrels would affright me.
You crooked and twisted generation.
The depths covered them;
Indeed, the flood of many waters will not reach him.

They descended into the depths like a stone.
Destruction is not His; it is His children's defect
At a time when You may be found;
Behold, you are comely; your eyes are like doves.

Make music for Him with the ten-stringed harp.
The earth trembled, the heavens also dripped;
Your faithfulness, too, in the congregation of the holy ones.
And You have forgiven the iniquity of my transgression forever.

A cluster of henna-flowers is my beloved to me,
When You marched out of the field of Edom,
For this let every pious man pray to You,
In the vineyards of Ein-Gedi."

I said, "I will confess my transgressions to the Lord"

B"H

The Songbird is saying,

The songbird has also found her home,
Your right hand, O Lord, is most powerful;
Your altars, G-d of Hosts
The mountains melted at the presence of the Lord

Bands of the nether world have surrounded me;
Is this how you repay Hashem,
The snares of death confronted me
You disgraceful, unwise people?!

Surround me with songs of deliverance forever.
And the sparrow a nest for herself,
The beams of our houses are cedars;
Where she may lay her young

My King and my Lord.
Is He not your Father, your Master?
Your right hand, O Lord, crushes the foe.
You are a refuge to me; protect me from distress;

He has made you and established you.
Our corridors are cypresses.
Indeed, who in heaven can be compared to the Lord
Also our couch is leafy.

And her rival vexed her sore, to make her fret,
That must be muzzled with bit and bridle
Also the clouds dripped water.
In the path you should go

Be not like a horse, like a mule, senseless,
Because Hashem had shut up her womb.
When being adorned, so that it not come near you.
Behold, you are comely, my beloved, yea pleasant;

I will enlighten you and educate you
I am a rose of Sharon, a rose of the valleys.
I will advise you with what I have seen.
Who among the supernal beings can be likened to the Lord!

B"H

The Swallow is saying,

Remember the days of old; reflect upon the years of [other] generations.
So that my soul shall praise You, and shall not be silent,
The Almighty is revered in the great assembly of the holy ones,
In his shade I delighted and sat, and his fruit was sweet to my palate.

Rejoice in the Lord and exult, you righteous ones!
He brought me to the banquet hall,
Sing joyously, all you upright of heart!
And his attraction to me [was symbolic of his] love.

Awe-inspiring to all who surround Him.
G-d my Lord – I shall give thanks to You forever.
And as he did so year by year, when she went up to the house of Hashem
As a rose among the thorns, so is my beloved among the daughters.

Ask your father, and he will tell you; your elders, and they will inform you.
As an apple tree among the trees of the forest, so is my beloved among the sons;
And out of His abode He hears my voice, and my cry enters His ears.
And with Your great pride You tear down those who rise up against You;

For the Conductor, a psalm by David.
Yes I call upon my G-d:
You send forth Your burning wrath;
Fortunate is he who is thoughtful of the poor,

When I am in distress, I call upon the Lord,
So she vexed her; therefore she wept, and would not eat.
The G-d of Israel. In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath,
[For] the Lord will save him on the day of evil.

Many are the agonies of the wicked,
It devours them like straw.
But he who trusts in the Lord is surrounded by kindness.
This (was at) Sinai, because of the presence of the Lord,


B"H


The Swift is saying,



When the Most High gave nations their lot,

And to all her sons and her daughters, portions;

Because they came not to the aid of the Lord,

Then the earth shook and quaked,

By the gazelles or by the hinds of the field,



When He separated the sons of man,

The [very] foundations of heaven did tremble;

His left hand was under my head,

And he will be praised in the land,

My help is from G-d, Maker of Heaven and Earth.




He set up the boundaries of peoples

And they were shaken when he was angered.

When Elkanah sacrificed,  that he gave to Peninnah his wife,

I have heard the complaints of the children of Israel.

I said, "O Lord, be gracious to me; heal my soul because I have sinned against You."
Speak to them, saying, In the afternoon you shall eat meat,
The Lord will preserve him and keep him alive,
according to the number of the children of Israel.
And it came to pass upon a day,
And his right hand would embrace me.
The Lord will support him on his sickbed;
Sustain me with flagons of wine, spread my bed with apples, for I am lovesick.
And in the morning you shall be sated with bread,
And Your faithfulness surrounds You.
I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem,
And you shall know that I am the Lord, your G-d.
O Lord, G-d of Hosts, who is like You,  O Y-h, Who are mighty?
When You have transformed his entire restfulness in his illness.


The Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
To the aid of the Lord against the mighty.
That you neither awaken nor arouse the love while it is desirous.
And You will not deliver him into the desire of his enemies.
B"H

The stormy petrel is saying,

My beloved raised his voice and said to me,
Light is sown for the righteous
Because the Lord's portion is His people
'Arise, my beloved, my fair one, and come away.

Until I Deborah arose; I arose as a mother in Israel.
So Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh,
The sound of my beloved! Behold, he is coming,
Skipping over the mountains, jumping over the hills.

My foes say that evil [awaits] me:
The depths congealed in the heart of the sea.
[Because] the enemy said, I will pursue,
When will he die, and his name perish?

The open cities ceased, in Israel they ceased,
And if one comes to see [me], he speaks insincerely,
Smoke went up in His nostrils,
For his heart gathers iniquity for himself,

Together they whisper against me-all my enemies;
And fire out of His mouth did devour;
Against me they devise my harm,
And after they had drunk

Coals flamed forth from Him.
You rule the vastness of the sea;
When its waves surge, You still them.
Looking from the windows,

Now Eli the priest sat upon his seat
My beloved resembles a gazelle or a fawn of the hinds;
And when he goes out he speaks of it.
By the door-post of the temple of Hashem;

Behold, he is standing behind our wall,
Jacob, the lot of His inheritance.
And joy for the straight-hearted.
Peering from the lattices.


B"H

The Bat is saying,

Comfort My people, comfort them, says your Lord.
And she was in bitterness of soul
And prayed unto Hashem, and wept sore.
And He bent the heavens and He came down;

Even my ally in whom I trusted, who ate of my bread,
Has raised his heel over me.
And thick darkness was under His feet.
Arise, my beloved, my fair one, and come away.

I will overtake, I will share the booty;
My desire will be filled from them;
When they chose new gods,
Then there was war in the cities;

I will draw my sword, my hand will impoverish them.
Was there seen a shield or a spear
Let his wickedness pour into him;
Now that he lies down, he shall rise no more.

You crushed Rahav (Egypt) like a corpse;
With Your powerful arm You scattered Your enemies.
But you, Lord, be gracious to me
And the vines with their tiny grapes have given forth their fragrance;

He found them in a desert land, and in a desolate, howling wasteland.
The blossoms have appeared in the land, the time of singing has arrived,
He encompassed them and bestowed understanding upon them;
For behold, the winter has passed; the rain is over and gone.


And raise me up, and I will repay them.
And the voice of the turtledove is heard in our land.
The fig tree has put forth its green figs,
He protected them as the pupil of His eye.




B"H


The Stork is saying,

Speak to the heart of Jerusalem, and call to her,
And He rode upon a cherub and did fly;
As an eagle awakens its nest, hovering over its fledglings,
For her time has arrived, for her sins have been pardoned,

You blew with Your wind, the sea covered them;
He was seen upon the wings of the wind.
It spreads its wings, taking them and carrying them on its pinions.
My dove, in the clefts of the rock, in the coverture of the steps,

If You will look upon the affliction of Your bondswoman,
For she has taken double from G-d's hand for all her sins.
Seize for us the foxes, the little foxes,
Who destroy the vineyards, for our vineyards are with tiny grapes.

(When the) forty thousand (went against) Israel?
They sank like lead in the powerful waters.
And she vowed a vow, and said: to Lord of Hosts,
And no razor shall come upon his head.

And You will remember me, and You will not forget Your bondswoman
With this I shall know that You desire me
Show me your appearance, let me hear your voice,
You set me before You forever.

My beloved is mine, and I am his,.
And You will give Your bondswoman a male child,
And I, because of my integrity, You upheld me
And I shall give him to the Lord all the days of his life,


When my enemies will not shout gleefully over me
My heart is toward the lawgivers of Israel,
Blessed is the Lord, the G-d of Israel
Who grazes among the roses

For your voice is pleasant and your appearance is comely.'
Yours are the heavens, the earth is also Yours;
The world and all therein-You established them.
To all eternity, Amen and Amen.


Week 12 (Book 7): The Raven Is Saying
The Raven is saying,
Who prepares food for the raven,
When his young ones cry out to G-d?
[So] the Lord guided them alone,
And there was no alien deity with Him.

And He fixed darkness about Him as Sukkot
Gathering of waters, thick clouds of the skies.
Who is like You among the powerful, O Lord?
Who is like You, exalted in the holy place?

My soul thirsts for G-d, for the living G-d;
When will I come and appear before G-d?
On my bed at night, I sought him whom my soul loves
I sought him but I did not find him.

And it came to pass, as she prayed long before the Lord,
That Eli watched her mouth.
I will seek him whom my soul loves
I sought him, but I did not find him.

Liken yourself, my beloved,
To a gazelle or to a fawn of the hinds, on distant mountains.
That offered themselves willingly among the people,
(Saying,) 'Bless the Lord,' the riders of white donkeys,

As a hart cries longingly for rivulets of water,
So does my soul cry longingly to You, O G-d.
My tears were my bread day and night
When they say to me all day long, "Where is your G-d?"

I will arise now and go about the city,
In the market places and in the city squares.
The north and the south-You created them;
Tabor and Hermon sing of Your Name.

Until the sun spreads, and the shadows flee,
Go around;
For the conductor,
A maskil of the sons of Korah.

Week 13 (Book 7): The Starling is Singing
 The Starling is Saying,
He made them ride upon the high places of the earth,
That they would eat the produce of the field.
Their seed shall be known among the nations,
And their offspring among the peoples;

He let them suck honey from a rock,
And oil from the mighty part of the crag.
All who see them shall acknowledge them,
That they are the seed that G-d has blessed.

Those that sit in judgment,
And those that walk on the path, tell of it.
Too awesome for praises,
Performing wonders!

Instead of the noise of adversaries,
Between the places of drawing water,
You inclined Your right hand;
The earth swallowed them up.

The watchmen who patrol the city found me:
Have you seen him whom my soul loves?
Only her lips moved, but her voice could not be heard;
Therefore, Eli thought she had been drunk.

Now Hannah, she spoke in her heart;
Why are you downcast, my soul, and why do you wail within me?
Hope to G-d, for I will yet thank Him for the deliverances of His countenance.
From the brightness before Him flamed forth coals of fire.

I had just passed them by,
When I found him whom my soul loves;
These do I recall, and pour out my soul from within me:
How I traveled [to Jerusalem] in covered wagons; I

I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem,
By the gazelles or by the hinds of the field,
Yours is the arm which has the might;
Strengthen Your hand, raise high Your right hand.

 held him and would not let him go, until I brought him into my mother's house
And into the chamber of her who had conceived me.
I would walk leisurely with them up to the House of G-d,
Amid the sound of rejoicing and thanksgiving, the celebrating multitude.

My G-d! My soul is downcast upon me,
Because I remember You from the land of Jordan
And Hermon's peaks, from Mount Mitzar.
That you neither awaken
Nor arouse the love while it is desirous.


Week 14 (Book 7): The Domestic Goose is Saying
The Domestic Goose is Saying,

Give thanks to G-d and call upon His name,
Make His works known amongst the peoples,
By day the Lord ordains His kindness,
And at night His song is with me.

Sing to Him, make music to Him, speak of all His wonders!
A prayer to the G-d of my life.
Righteousness and justice are the foundation of Your throne;
Kindness and truth go before Your countenance.

Deep calls to deep at the roar of Your channels
All Your breakers and waves have swept over me.
Behold the litter of Solomon; sixty mighty men are around it, of the mighty men of Israel.
They all hold the sword, skilled in warfare; each with a sword on his thigh due to fear at night.

The Lord thundered from heaven;
And the Most High gave forth His voice.
I say to G-d, my rock, "Why have You forgotten me?
Why must I walk in gloom under the oppression of the enemy?"

And it would drink the blood of grapes as the finest wine.
And Eli said to her: Until when will you be drunk?
Throw off your wine from upon yourself.
Of all the powder of the peddler

Who is this coming up from the desert,
Like columns of smoke, perfumed with myrrh and frankincense,
The cream of cattle and the milk of sheep,
With the fat of lambs and rams of Bashan and he goats, with kidneys of wheat

B"H

The wild goose flying in the wilderness,
When it sees Israel busy with Torah, is saying,

Fortunate is the people that know the blasting of the shofar;
A voice cries out: Prepare in the wilderness the way for G-d,
O Lord, may they walk in the light of Your countenance.
Make straight in the desert a path for our G-d

Go out, O daughters of Zion, and gaze upon King Solomon,
Then the people of the Lord went down to the cities.
King Solomon made himself a palanquin of the trees of Lebanon.
Praise! Praise! Deborah.

Its pillars he made of silver, its couch of gold, its curtain of purple,
For the salvations of my countenance and my G-d.
On the day of his nuptials and on the day of the joy of his heart.
Hope to G-d, for I will yet thank Him

For the conductor, al tashcheth; of David a michtam,
Its interior inlaid with love, from the daughters of Jerusalem.
People heard, they trembled;
Upon the crown with which his mother crowned him

And upon finding its food in the wilderness, it says:
And Jeshurun became fat and rebelled;
Cursed is the man who trusts in human beings;
You grew fat, thick and rotund;
Blessed is the man who trusts in G-d

[Israel] forsook the G-d Who made them,
And He sent out arrows and He scattered them,
And spurned the [Mighty] Rock of their salvation.
Lightning and He discomfited them.

When Saul sent and they guarded the house to slay him.
And Hannah answered and said: 'No, my lord,
Why are you downcast, my soul, and why do you stir within me?
I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit;

With murder in my bones, my oppressors have reproached me
I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink,
By saying to me all day long, "Where is your G-d?"
But I poured out my soul before Hashem.

Save me from my enemies, my G-d;
A shudder seized the inhabitants of Philistia.
Strengthen me against those who rise up against me.
And G-d shall be his assurance.


B"H

The Ducks are saying:

Trust in G-d forever and ever,
That came up from the washing, all of whom are perfect,
They rejoice in Your Name all day,

For G-d, the Eternal, is the strength of worlds.
Your teeth are like a flock of uniformly shaped [ewes]
And they are exalted through Your righteousness.
Your temple is like a split pomegranate from within your kerchief.

They provoked His zeal with alien worship;
By the rebuke of the Lord and the blast of the breath of His nostrils.
Without iniquity [on my part,] they run and prepare
Awaken towards me and see!

They made Him angry with abominable deeds.
Rescue me from evildoers, save me from men of bloodshed.
And my vexation have I spoken hitherto.
Not because of my sin nor my transgression, O Lord.

Count not thy handmaid for a wicked woman:
For behold they lie in ambush for my soul,
For out of the abundance of my complaint
Mighty ones gather against me

Then the chieftains of Edom were startled;
Your lips are like a scarlet thread, and your speech is comely;
[As for] the powerful men of Moab, trembling seized them;
Your hair is like a flock of goats

Praise! Praise! Utter a song.
Behold, you are fair, my beloved; behold, you are fair;
Your eyes are [like] doves, from within your kerchief;
Arise Barak, and capture your captives, son of Abinoam.

And the depths of the sea appeared;
That streamed down from Mount Gilead.
The foundations of the world were laid bare,
And there is no bereavement among them.



 B"H

The bee-eater is saying,

I will whistle to them and gather them,
He sent from on high [and] He took me;
The twins of a gazelle, who graze among the roses.
He drew me out of many waters.

And they shall increase as they have before increased.
Indeed, You are the splendor of their might,
The Lord dominated the strong for me.
And in Your goodwill our glory is exalted.

They sacrificed to demons, which have no power,
All the inhabitants of Canaan melted.
May dread and fright fall upon them;
Which your forefathers did not fear.

Then ruled a remnant among the mighty of the nations;
Deities they did not know, new things that only recently came,
Swords are in their lips, for [they say], "Who hears?"
All the quivers of the mighty men.

And You, Lord, G-d of Hosts, G-d of Israel,
Until the sun spreads and the shadows flee,
Wake up to remember all the nations;
A thousand shields hanging on it,

Behold, they spew with their mouths,
Your two breasts are like two fawns,
They howl like the dog and circle the city.
And to the hill of frankincense.



And Eli answered and said: Go in peace,
I will go to the mountain of myrrh
And the God of Israel will grant your request
For I have redeemed them,

They return toward evening,
Your neck is like the Tower of David, built as a model;
Do not grant favor to any of the iniquitous traitors, Selah.
Which you have asked of Him.




 The Grasshopper is saying
I lift my eyes up to the mountains,
Where shall my help come from?
For our protectors turn to the Lord,
And our king to the Holy One of Israel.

You shall look from the peak of Amanah,
From the peak of Senir and Hermon,
From the lions' dens, from mountains of leopards.
[Because of] his might, I wait for You, for G-d is my stronghold.

The G-d of my kindness will anticipate my [need];
G-d will show me [the downfall] of my watchful foes.
With the arm of Your greatness may they become as still as a stone,
Until Your people cross over, O Lord,

He delivered me from my mighty enemy;
From them that hated me; for they were too powerful for me.
But You, Lord, You laugh at them;
You mock all nations.

You forgot the [Mighty] Rock Who bore you;
You forgot the G-d Who delivered you.
Out of Ephraim, whose root was against Amalek;
After you (will be) Benjamin with your abaters;

You have captivated my heart, my sister, [my] bride;
You have captivated my heart with one of your eyes,
With one link of your necklaces.
And she said: May your bondswoman find favor in your eyes;

You are all fair, my beloved, and there is no blemish in you.
With me from Lebanon, my bride, with me from Lebanon shall you come;
And the woman went on her way and ate,
And her face was not (sad) anymore.

Week 19: The Locust is Saying (Book 7)
The Locust is saying,
At the sight of their accursed state and deterioration, [people] will recount.
Consume them in wrath, consume them and they will be no more;
And the Lord saw this and became angry,
Provoked by His sons and daughters.

Do not kill them, lest my nation forget;
Drive them about with Your might and impoverish them,
Until this nation that You have acquired crosses over.
You shall bring them and plant them on the mount of Your heritage,

And they will know that G-d rules in Jacob, to the ends of the earth, Selah.
And they arose early in the morning, and prostrated themselves before the Lord:
And they returned and came to their house, to Ramah,
I will praise Your Name; for You have done wondrous things;


They confronted me on the day of my calamity;
But the Lord was a support to me.
O our Shield, my Master, [for] the sin of their mouth,
The word of their lips;  let them be trapped by their arrogance.

Out of Machir came down officers,
And out of Zebulun they that handle the pen of the scribe.
And Elkanah knew Hannah, his wife, and the Lord remembered her.
Your counsels of old are faithfulness and truth.

Then You spoke in a vision to Your pious ones and said:
How fair is your love, my sister, [my] bride;
How much better is your love than wine,
and the fragrance of your oils than all spices!

I have granted aid to [David] the mighty one;
Your lips drip flowing honey, O bride;
Honey and milk are under your tongue,
O G-d, You are my Lord; I will exalt You,

I have exalted the one chosen from among the people.
And the fragrance of your garments is like the fragrance of Lebanon.
A locked up garden is my sister, [my] bride;
A locked up spring, a sealed fountain.


Week 20 (Book 7): The Spider is Saying


The Spider is saying,

And they will return toward evening,
They will howl like the dog and circle the city.
And He said, "I will hide My face from them.
I will see what their end will be,"

They will wander about to eat;
When they will not be sated they will groan.
For they are a generation of reversals;
They are not My children whom I have reared.

As for me, I shall sing of Your might,
And sing joyously of Your kindness toward morning,
And the princes of Issachar were with Deborah,
As was Issachar with Barak;

And it was, after the seasons and the days,
After Hannah had conceived, that she bore a son,
I have found David, My servant;
I have anointed him with My holy oil.

And she called his name Samuel,
Because, "I asked him of the Lord."
Directed toward Your habitation,
Which You made, O Lord;

For You have been a stronghold to me,
A refuge on the day of my distress.
The sanctuary, O Lord,
[Which] Your hands founded.

And He brought me forth into a wide place;
Your arid fields are as a pomegranate orchard
With sweet fruit, henna and spikenard.
Praise Him with sounding cymbals!

Into the valley they rushed forth with their feet.
Spikenard and saffron, calamus
And cinnamon, with all frankincense trees
 He delivered me because He took delight in me.

Myrrh and aloes, with all the chief spices.
A garden fountain, a well of living waters
And flowing streams from Lebanon.
Praise Him with loud clashing cymbals!


Week 21 (Book 7): The Fly is Saying

The Fly, when Israel is not busying itself with Torah, is saying:
When Pharaoh's horses came with his chariots
And his horsemen into the sea,
They have provoked My jealousy with a non-G-d,
Provoked My anger with their vanities.

All flesh is grass, and all its grace is as the flower of the field.
(But) among the divisions of Reuben,  (there were) great resolves of heart.
The voice said, 'Call out'. And he said, 'What shall I call out?
Why do you sit between the borders?

I sleep, but my heart is awake. Hark! My beloved is knocking:
My perfect one, for my head is full of dew, My locks with the drops of the night.
My wound oozes at night and does not abate;
My soul refuses to be comforted.

Thus, I will provoke their jealousy with a non-people,
Provoke their anger with a foolish nation.
The grass withers, the flower fades,
But the word of our Lord shall endure forever.

The Lord will reign to all eternity;
[You are] my strength, to You I will sing,
The Lord rewarded me according to my righteousness;
According to the cleanness of my hands He recompensed me.

I will create a new expression of the lips:  Peace, peace for him
Who is far off and for him who is near, says G-d, and I will heal him.
It is he whom My hand shall be prepared [to assist];
My arm, too, shall strengthen him.

Awake, O north wind, and come, O south wind;
Blow upon my garden, that the spices thereof may flow out;
And the man, Elkanah and his entire household, went up
To slaughter to the Lord, the sacrifice of the days and his vow.

Let my beloved come to his garden and eat his sweet fruit.
For G-d is my stronghold, the G-d of my kindness.
I have come to my garden, my sister, [my] bride;
For the Conductor, on the yedutun, by Asaph, a psalm.

I have gathered my myrrh with my spice,
I have eaten my sugar cane with my sugar,
[I raise] my voice to G-d and cry out;
[I raise] my voice to G-d and He will listen to me.

I have drunk my wine with my milk.
On the day of my distress, I sought the Lord;
Eat, friends; drink, yea, drink abundantly, beloved ones.
Open for me, my sister, my beloved, my dove.


Week 22 (Book 7): The Giant Sea Creatures Are Saying

The Giant Sea Creatures are saying:

Praise G-d from the land, the giant sea creatures and all the depths.
For a fire blazed in My wrath, and burned to the lowest depths.
It consumed the land and its produce, setting aflame the foundations of mountains.
And the Lord brought the waters of the sea back upon them

For I have kept the ways of the Lord and have not wickedly departed from my G-d.
And the children of Israel walked on dry land in the midst of the sea
But Hannah did not go up, for she said to her husband:
Until the child is weaned, then I shall bring him

I remember G-d and I stir; I speak and my spirit becomes faint, forever.
And he shall appear before the Lord, and abide there forever.
No enemy will exact from him, neither will an unjust person afflict him.
My beloved stretched forth his hand from the hole, and my insides stirred because of him.

"I have taken off my tunic; how can I put it on?
To hear the bleatings of the flocks?
I have bathed my feet; how can I soil them?"
At the divisions of Reuben, (there are) great searchings of heart.

I arose to open for my beloved, and my hands dripped with myrrh,
You held fast the awakenings of my eyes; I throb and I do not speak.
And my fingers with flowing myrrh, upon the handles of the lock.
I think of days of yore, ancient years.

Week 23 (Book 7): The Leviathan is Saying


The Leviathan is Saying


I opened for my beloved,
But my beloved had hidden and was gone.
Is it for eternity that my Lord forsakes me?
Nevermore to be appeased?


Give thanks to the Lord, for He is good,
For His kindness is eternal.
Sing to the Lord, for exalted is He
Horse and rider He cast into the sea.


During the night I recall my music,
I meditate with my heart and my spirit searches.
My soul went out when he spoke,
I sought him, but found him not.


Has His kindness ceased forever?
Has He sealed the decree for all generations?
For all His ordinances were before me
And as for His statutes I did not depart from them.


The watchmen who patrol the city found me
They smote me and wounded me;
I will link evils upon them,
I will use up my arrows on them.


The watchmen of the walls took my jewelry off me.
And I will crush his adversaries before him
And will strike down those who hate him.
Only may the Lord fulfill His word.


Gilead abides beyond the Jordan
And Dan, why does he gather into ships?
I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem,
If you find my beloved, what will you tell him?


I called him, but he did not answer me.
And Elkanah, her husband said to her,
Do what seems good to you,
Stay until you have weaned him,
For I am lovesick.


Miriam, the prophetess, Aaron's sister,
Took a timbrel in her hand.
And the woman stayed and
Nursed her son until she weaned him.

Week 24 (Book 7): The Fish Are Saying


The Fish are saying

The voice of G-d is upon the waters
Asher dwelt at the shore of the seas,
Moses led Israel away from the Red Sea
And they went out into the desert of Shur;

I said, "It is to terrify me that the right hand of the Most High changes."
Has G-d forgotten mercy? Has He in anger restrained His compassion forever?
Indeed, My faithfulness and My kindness shall be with him.
And I was single-hearted toward Him and I kept myself from my iniquity.

They came to Marah, but they could not drink water from Marah
Because it was bitter; Therefore, it was named Marah.
They will sprout hair from famine;
Attacked by demons, excised by Meriri

They walked for three days in the desert but did not find water.
I will incite the teeth of livestock upon them
The G-d of glory thunders; G-d is upon many waters.
And through my name his glory shall be exalted.

I remember the deeds of Yah,
When I remember your wonders of long ago.
With three bulls, and one ephah of meal, and an earthenware jug of wine
With the venom of creatures that slither in the dust.

My beloved is white and ruddy, surrounded by myriads.
His head is as the finest gold; His locks are curled, black as a raven.
And she brought him to the house of the Lord, to Shiloh,
And the child was young.

What is your beloved more than another beloved, O fairest of women?
What is your beloved more than another beloved, that you have so adjured us?
And she brought him with her when she had weaned him
And by his breaches he abides.


Week 25 (Book 7): The Frog Is Saying
The Frog is saying,

Zebulun is a people that jeopardized their lives to die,
As did Naphtali, upon the high places of the field.
Blessed is the Name of the honor of His Kingdom for all eternity.

The people complained against Moses, saying, What shall we drink?
I will set his hand upon the sea, his right hand upon the rivers.
His eyes are like doves beside rivulets of water, bathing in milk, fitly set.

There He gave them a statute and an ordinance, and there He tested them.
So he cried out to the Lord, and the Lord instructed him
Concerning a piece of wood, which he cast into the water, and the water became sweet.

I meditate on all Your works, and speak of Your deeds.
His jaws are like a bed of spice, growths of aromatic plants
His lips are [like] roses, dripping with flowing myrrh.

You are the G-d Who works wonders; You make Your might known among the nations.
His hands are [like] wheels of gold, set with chrysolite
His abdomen is [as] a block of ivory, overlaid with sapphires.

And the Lord has recompensed me according to my righteousness;
According to my cleanness before His eyes.
O G-d, Your way is in sanctity; what god is as great as G-d?

From outside, the sword will bereave, and terror from within;
And when the bullock was slain, the child was brought to Eli.
Young men and maidens, suckling babes with venerable elders.

Week 26 (Book 7): The Lamb Is Saying
The Lamb Is Saying

Who is like You among the might ones, G-d,
Who is like You, mighty in holiness,
You redeemed Your people with Your arm,
The sons of Jacob and Joseph forever.

The kings came and fought;
Then fought the kings of Canaan
I said that I would make an end of them
Eradicate their remembrance from mankind.

All the sicknesses that I have visited upon Egypt
I will not visit upon you, for I, the Lord, heal you.
With a kind one, You show Yourself kind.
With the upright, mighty, You show Yourself upright

And he said, if you hearken
To the voice of the Lord, Your G-d,
And you do what is proper in His eyes,
His appearance is like the Lebanon,

Chosen as the cedars.
O daughters of Jerusalem
They trembled, even the deeps quaked.
They poured forth thick waters

His legs are [as] pillars of marble,
Founded upon sockets of fine gold,
The skies let out a voice,
Even your arrows went abroad.

Water fountains and seventy palms.
And they encamped there by the water.
The waters perceived You, O G-d,
The waters perceived You,

And she said, "Please, my lord!
As surely as your soul lives, my lord,
And you listen closely to His commandments
And observe all His statutes,

They came to Elim, and there were twelve
Where has your beloved gone,
O fairest of women
Where has your beloved turned

I am the woman who was standing here
With you, to pray to the Lord.
His palate is sweet, and he is altogether desirable
This is my beloved, and this is my friend,

He will call to Me, You are my Father,
My G-d, and the Rock of my salvation.
Awesome in praise, worker of wonders.
That we may seek him with you.


Week 27 (Book 7): The Cow Is Saying

The Cow is Saying

My beloved has gone down to his garden, to the spice beds
To graze in the gardens and to gather roses
And the entire community of the children of Israel
Came to the desert of Scin, which is between Elim and Sinai

You led Your people like a flock
By the hand of Moses and Aaron
On the fifteenth day of the second month
After their departure from the land of Egypt

The entire community of the children of Israel
Complained against Moses and against Aaron in the desert
The sound of Your thunder was in the rolling wind
Lightning lit up the world; the earth trembled and quaked

With a pure one, You show Yourself pure
But with a perverse one, You deal crookedly
Were it not that the enemy's wrath was heaped up
Lest their adversaries distort

Your way was through the sea
Your path through the mighty waters
And Your footsteps were not known
In Taanach by the waters of Megiddo

They journeyed from Elim
They took no gain of money
Lest they claim, "Our hand was triumphant!
The Lord did none of this!"

Rejoice to the Lord of our strength
Trumpet to the Lord of Jacob!
I will also make him [My] firstborn
Supreme over the kings of the earth

For this child did I pray
I am my beloved's
And my beloved is mine
Who grazes among the roses

You are fair, my beloved, as Tirzah
Comely as Jerusalem, awesome as the bannered legions
And the Lord granted me my request
Which I asked of Him.

Week 28 (Book 7): The Pig Is Saying
The Pig is Saying

Turn away your eyes from me, for they have made me haughty;
For they are a nation devoid of counsel and they have no understanding.
G-d is good to those that are good, as well as to the straight-hearted.
And the humble people You do deliver; but Your eyes are upon the haughty to humble them.

The children of Israel said to them,
If only we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt,
When we sat by pots of meat, when we ate bread to our fill!
For you have brought us out into this desert, to starve this entire congregation to death.

You bring man to the crushing point and You say, "Return, O sons of men."
Your hair is like a flock of goats that streamed down from Gilead.
Your teeth are like a flock of ewes that came up from the washing,
All of which are perfect and there is no bereavement among them.

A prayer of Moses, the man of G-d. O Lord, You have been our dwelling place throughout all generations.
And I also have lent him to the Lord; all the days which he will be alive, he is borrowed by the Lord.
Before the mountains were born, and You brought forth the earth and the inhabited world,
And from everlasting to everlasting, You are G-d.

So the Lord said to Moses, Behold! I am going to rain down for you bread from heaven,
From heaven they fought; the stars; From their courses fought against Sisera.
I will forever keep My kindness for him, and My covenant will remain true to him.
Your temple is like a split pomegranate from beneath your kerchief.

For a thousand years are in Your eyes like yesterday, which passed, and a watch in the night.
And the people shall go out and gather what is needed for the day,
So that I can test them, whether or not they will follow My teaching.
And he prostrated himself there to the Lord.


Week 29 (Book 7): The Beast of Burden is Saying
The Beast of Burden is Saying,

My mouth is opened wide against my enemies
For I have rejoiced in Your salvation.
[In the] evening, you shall know that
The Lord brought you out of the land of Egypt.

That when they prepare what they will bring
It will be double of what they gather every day.
When you eat the fruit of your labors,
Happy are you and good is your lot.

Daughters saw her and praised her,
Queens and concubines, and they lauded her
And I shall make his seed endure forever,
And his throne as the days of the heavens.

And Hannah prayed and said:
Who is this who looks forth like the dawn
Fair as the moon, clear as the sun,
Awesome as the bannered legions?

For You are my lamp, Oh Lord
And the Lord does light my darkness.
In the morning, like grass it passes away.
In the morning, it blossoms and passes away

Moses and Aaron said to all the children of Israel,
There are sixty queens and eighty concubines, and innumerable maidens.
If [only] they were wise and would understand this
They would reflect upon their fate.

For we perish from Your wrath,
And from Your anger we are dismayed.
And it shall be on the sixth day
In the evening, it is cut off and withers.

You carry them away as a flood
They are like a sleep
The brook Kishon swept them away,
That ancient brook, the brook Kishon

My dove, my perfect one, is but one, she is one to her mother
She is the pure one of she who bore her
My heart has rejoiced through the Lord
My horn has been raised by the Lord.

Week 30 (Book 7): The Camel is Saying
The Camel is saying,

Tread down, O my soul strength.
Then were pounded the heels of the horses
I went down to the nut garden
To see the green plants of the valley

To see whether the vine had blossomed,
The pomegranates were in bloom.
If his children forsake My Torah
And do not walk in My ordinances

You have set our wrongdoings before You,
Our hidden sins before the light of Your countenance.
For all our days have vanished in Your wrath;
We cause our years to pass like a fleeting sound.

But [of] what [significance] are we,
That you make complain against us?
When the Lord hears your complaints,
Which you are making complain against Him,

How can one pursue a thousand,
And two put ten thousand to flight,
Unless their Rock has sold them out,
And the Lord has given them over?

There is none as holy as the Lord,
For there is none besides You
And there is no rock like our God.
But [of] what [significance] are we?

And Moses said,
Not against us are your complaints,
But against the Lord.
When the Lord gives you

In the evening meat to eat
And bread in the morning to become sated
The days of our lives number seventy years,
And if in great vigor, eighty years

Most of them are but travail and futility
Passing quickly and flying away.
And [in the] morning, You shall see the glory of the Lord
When He hears your complaints against the Lord

G-d shall roar from upon high
And cause His voice to sound
From His holy place, His shout
Echoes profoundly over His dwelling place.

Return, return, O Shulammite
Return, return, and let us gaze upon you.
What will you see for the Shulammite,
As in the dance of the two camps?

I did not know; my soul made me
Chariots for a princely people.
For by You I run upon a troop
By my G-d I scale a wall.


Week 31 (Book 7): The Horse is Saying
The Horse is saying,

If they profane My statutes and
Do not observe My commandments
By reason of the prancings
The prancings of their mighty ones.

Do not increasingly speak haughtily
Let not arrogance come out of your mouth
[He is] the G-d Whose way is perfect
The word of the Lord is tried.

Your wrath is commensurate with one's fear of You
He is a shield unto all them that trust in Him
Relent, O Lord; how long? Have compassion upon Your servants.
Who can know the intensity of Your anger?

Behold, as the eyes of the servants
To the hand of their master
So are our eyes to G-d our Lord
Until He will favor us.

And Moses said to Aaron
Say to the entire community of the children of Israel
Teach us, then, to reckon our days
That we may acquire a wise heart.

And it came to pass when Aaron spoke
To the entire community of the children of Israel
That they turned toward the desert, and behold!
The glory of the Lord appeared in the cloud.

How fair are your feet in sandals,
O daughter of nobles!
As the eyes of the maidservant
To the hand of her mistress

The curves of your thighs are like jewels,
The handiwork of a craftsman.
Your navel is a round basin,
Where no mixed wine is lacking;

Your belly is [like] a stack of wheat,
Fenced in with roses.
Your two breasts are like two fawns,
The twins of a gazelle.

'Curse you Meroz,' said the messenger of the Lord,
'Curse you bitterly inhabitants thereof,'
For the Lord is a G-d of thoughts,
And to Him are deeds counted.

For their rock is not like our Rock
Nevertheless, our enemies sit in judgment
Draw near before the Lord,
For He has heard your complaints.

Week 32 (Book 7): The Mule Is Saying
The Mule is saying,

The bows of the mighty are broken;
And those who stumbled, are girded with strength.
All the kings of earth shall acknowledge You, G-d,
For they have heard the sayings of Your mouth.

Your neck is like an ivory tower;
Your eyes are [like] pools in Heshbon, by the gate of Bath-Rabbim
Your face is as the tower of Lebanon, facing towards Damascus
Your head upon you is like Carmel

Give us joy corresponding to the days You afflicted us,
The years we have seen adversity.
For their vine is of the vine of Sodom,
And of the field of Gemorrah;

Because they came not to the aid of the Lord,
To the aid of the Lord against the mighty.
For who is G-d, save the Lord?
And who is a rock, save our G-d?

And the braided locks of your head are like purple;
The king is bound in the tresses.
Let Your work be revealed to Your servants,
And Your splendor be upon their children.

The Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
I have heard the complaints of the children of Israel.
Their grapes are grapes of rosh,
And they have bitter clusters.

Speak to them, saying, "In the afternoon you shall eat meat
And in the morning you shall be sated with bread,"
Satiate us in the morning with Your kindness,
Then we shall sing and rejoice throughout our days.

And you shall know that
I am the Lord, your G-d.
How fair and how pleasant you are,
A love of delights!


Week 33 (Book 7): The Donkey is Saying
The Donkey is Saying,

Yours, G-d, is the greatness, and the might
And the splendor, and the victory, and the glory
This, your stature, is like a palm tree
And your breasts are like clusters [of dates]

Sing to Him, play music to Him, speak of all His wonders
For everything in the Heavens and earth [is Yours]
Yours, G-d, is the kingship, and the exaltation over all

Blessed above women shall Jael
The wife of Heber the Kenite, be
Their wine is the bitterness of serpents
And the bitterness of the ruthless cobras

While the barren hath borne seven
She that had many children hath languished
And let your breasts be now like clusters of the vine
And the fragrance of your countenance like apples

Above women in the tent shall she be blessed
G-d is He who has fortified me with strength
And He loosened perfectly my path
And may the pleasantness of the Lord our G-d be upon us

It came to pass in the evening that
The quails went up and covered the camp
But I shall not cancel My kindness from him
And I shall not betray My faith

And in the morning there was a layer
Of dew around the camp. The layer of dew went up
I said: Let me climb up the palm tree
Let me seize its boughs

And behold, on the surface of the desert, a fine
Bare [substance] as fine as frost on the ground
They that were full have hired out themselves for bread
And they that were hungry have ceased

Give thanks to the Lord, call out in His name
Make His deeds known among the peoples
And the work of our hands establish for us
And the work of our hands establish it


Week 34 (Book 7): The Ox is Saying
The Ox is saying,

Remember the wonders that He has wrought
His miracles, and the judgments of His mouth
When the children of Israel saw, they said to one another, "It is manna"
Because they did not know what it was

And your palate is like the best wine,
That glides down smoothly to my beloved,
May the heart of those who seek the Lord rejoice
Search for the Lord and His might

Seek His countenance always
Making the lips of the sleeping speak
Glory in His holy Name; And Moses said to them
It is the bread that the Lord has given you to eat

This is the thing that the Lord has commanded
I will not abrogate My covenant
Nor change that which has issued from My lips
Is it not stored up with Me, sealed up in My treasuries?

Then Moses and the Children of Israel sang this song to G-d
And they said, "I shall sing to G-d, for He has triumphed
He has thrown the horse and its rider into the sea"
He makes my feet like hinds; And sets me upon my high places

Gather of it each one according to his eating capacity
An omer for each person, according to the number of persons
Each one for those in his tent you shall take

Water he requested, (but) milk she gave him
In a lordly bowl she brought him cream
The Lord kills and makes alive
He brings down to the grave and raises up

Week 35 (Book 7): The Wild Animals Say
The Wild Animals say,

One thing have I sworn by My holiness,
That I will not fail David.
He trains my hand for war,
So that mine arms do bend a brass bow.

She put forth her hand to the pin,
And her right hand to strike the weary;
For the appointed day of their reckoning is near,
And what is destined for them hastens.

The Lord impoverishes and makes rich.
He humbles; He also exalts.
Vengeance is poised with Me,
And it will pay at the time their foot stumbles.

And the children of Israel did so
They gathered, both the one who gathered much
And the one who gathered little.
And they measured [it] with an omer.

And whoever gathered much
Did not have more, and whoever gathered little did not have less;
I am my beloved's, and his desire is upon me.
Each one according to his eating capacity, they gathered.

Blessed is the One Who is good and bestows good.
The seed of Abraham His servant, the children of Jacob, His chosen ones.
He is the Lord our G-d; throughout all the earth are His judgments.
He remembered His covenant forever, the word He had commanded to the thousandth generation,

Week 36 (Book 7): The Gazelle Is Saying
The Gazelle Is Saying

Come, my beloved,
Let us go out to the field, let us lodge in the villages
And I shall sing of Your strength
I shall rejoice of Your kindness in the morning

For You were a refuge to me,
and a hiding place on the day of my oppression.
And You have given me the shield of Your salvation;
And You have increased Your humility for me.

He lifts the poor from the dust;
From the dunghill, He raises the pauper,
When the Lord will judge His people,
And will reconsider His servants,

To seat them with princes,
And a seat of honor He causes them to inherit,
When He sees that the power is increasing,
And none is controlled or strengthened.

And Moses said to them,
Let no one leave over [any] of it until morning.
For the pillars of the earth are the Lord's,
And He placed the world upon them.

But [some] men did not obey Moses
And left over [some] of it until morning,
And it bred worms and became putrid,
And Moses became angry with them.

She struck Sisera, pierced his head,
And wounded and penetrated his temple.
The covenant which He made with Abraham,
And His oath to Isaac.  He established it

For Jacob as a statute, for Israel as an everlasting Covenant,
Stating, "To you I shall give the land of Canaan"
His seed will endure forever and his throne will be
As the sun before Me; the portion of your inheritance.


Week 37 (Book 7): The Elephant Is Saying
The Elephant Is Saying

You have enlarged my step[s] beneath me
And my ankles have not slipped
How great are your works, G-d
Your thoughts are tremendously deep

Let us arise early to the vineyards;
Let us see whether the vine has blossomed
They gathered it morning by morning
For not by strength will man prevail.

And they walked from nation to nation,
From one kingdom to another people.
A double portion of bread, two omers for one,
And all the princes of the community came and reported to Moses.

Each one according to his eating capacity
And [when] the sun grew hot, it melted
Then He will say, "Where is their deity
The rock in which they trusted?"

At her feet he sank, fell, lay;
At her feet he sank (and) fell;
The feet of His pious ones He will guard,
And the wicked shall be cut off in darkness

The tiny grapes have developed,
The pomegranates have lost their flowers
Like the moon, which is established forever,
And it is a witness in the sky, eternally true.

When they were few in number, hardly dwelling in it.
It came to pass on the sixth day that they gathered
He let no man oppress them, and He reproved kings on their account.

There I will give you my love.


Week 38 (Book 7): The Lion is saying
The Lion is saying

He shall arouse zeal, He shall cry,
Even roar, He shall prevail over His enemies.
I have pursued my enemies
And have destroyed them;

Those who strive with the Lord will be broken;
Upon him will He thunder in Heaven;
So they left it over until morning
As Moses had commanded

He called a famine upon the land;
He broke every staff of bread.
Who ate the fat of their sacrifices
And drank the wine of their libations?

Through the window looked forth,
The mother of Sisera [peered] through the window;
Let them arise and help you! Let them be your shelter!
And all the rest leave over to keep until morning

Where he sank, there he fell down dead.
The Lord will judge the ends of the earth.
And He will grant strength to His King,
And raise the horn of His anointed one.

"Do not touch My anointed ones,
And do not harm My prophets."
But You abandoned and You rejected;
You became wroth with Your anointed.

He sent a man before them;
Joseph was sold as a slave.
So he said to them
That is what the Lord spoke

Tomorrow is a rest day
A holy Sabbath to the Lord
The pots [of figs] have given forth [their] fragrance
And on our doorways are all manner of sweet fruits,

Bake whatever you wish to bake
And cook whatever you wish to cook
G-d shall go out as a mighty man,
Never turning back until they were consumed.

And it did not become putrid
And not a worm was in it
Both new and old,
Which I have hidden away for you, my beloved.


Week 39 (Book 7): The Bear Is Saying
Week 39: The Bear is saying,


Let the wilderness and its cities lift up their voice,
The village that Kedar inhabits
O, that you were like my brother,
Who sucked my mother's breasts!

And Moses said, "Eat it today,
For today is a Sabbath to the Lord;
Today you will not find it in the field."
Let the inhabitants of the rock sing,

Let them shout from the peaks of the mountains.
Let them give glory to G-d and tell of His praise in the islands.
And Elkanah went to Ramah, to his house
I would find you outside, I would kiss you, and they would not despise me.



See now that it is I! I am the One,
And there is no G-d like Me!
Six days you shall gather it,
But on the seventh day, the Sabbath, on it there will be none.

And the child was serving the Lord before Eli the priest.
They afflicted his foot with fetters;
His soul was placed in irons.
You abrogated the covenant of Your servant;

Why is his chariot late in coming?
Why tarry the strides of his chariots?
I cause death and grant life.
I strike, but I heal,

And no one can rescue from My Hand!
And I have consumed them,
And I have crushed them that they cannot rise;
Yes, they are fallen under my feet.

You profaned his crown to the ground.
Until His word came, the saying of the Lord purified him.
A king sent and released him,
A ruler of peoples [sent] and loosed his bonds.


Week 40 (Book 7): The Wolf Is Saying
The Wolf Is Saying

You breached all his fences
You made his fortifications a ruin
For every matter of iniquity
For the ox, the donkey, the lamb, the garment

For every lost item which he says, "This is it,"
Some spiced wine, of the juice of my pomegranate.
The matter of both of them shall come before the judge
To bind up his princes with his soul

It came about that on the seventh day
The people went out to gather, but they did not find
And he made his elders wise
He who the judge finds guilty shall pay double to the other

Now the sons of Eli were base men
They knew not the Lord
He made him the master of his household

And the ruler over all his possessions

The Lord said to Moses, How long will you refuse
To observe My commandments and My teachings?
The wisest of her princesses answer her
She too returns answers to herself

For I raise up My hand to heaven
And say, 'As I live forever.'
Israel came to Egypt and Jacob
Sojourned in the land of Ham

For You have girded me with strength for the battle
You have subdued under me those that rose up against me
I would lead you, I would bring you to the house of my mother
Who instructed me; I would give you to drink

Week 41 (Book 7): The Fox Is Saying
The Fox Is Saying

When I sharpen the blade of My sword
And My hand grasps judgment
Woe to him that builds his house without justice
And his chambers without lawfulness

When (one) cooked the flesh,
With a three-pronged fork in his hand
Are they not finding (and) dividing the spoils
A damsel, two damsels to every man

He gives you bread for two days
Let each man remain in his place
The servant of the priest would come
[And] Aaron whom He chose

And this was the due of the priests from the people
(Whenever) any man would slaughter a sacrifice
That uses his friend's service without wages
And does not give him for his hire

I will bring vengeance upon My adversaries
And repay those who hate Me
Them that hate me, that I may cut them off
And of my enemies You have given me the back of their necks

All wayfarers have plundered him
He was a disgrace to his neighbors
He turned their heart to hate His people
To plot against His servants

See that the Lord has given you the Sabbath
Therefore, on the sixth day He sent Moses His servant
His left hand would be under my head,
And his right hand would embrace me.

Let no man leave his place on the seventh day
So the people rested on the seventh day
And He made His people very fruitful
And He made it stronger than its adversaries


Week 42 (Book 7): The Hound Is Saying
The Hound Is Saying

Let the righteous rejoice in G-d
I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem;
Why should you awaken, and why should you
Arouse the love until it is desirous?

And he would thrust into the fire-pot
Or into the pot, or into the cauldron, or into the pan
They looked about, but there was no one to save them
[Even] to the Lord, but He answered them not

Everything which the fork would pick up
The priest would take therewith
I will intoxicate My arrows with blood
And My sword will consume flesh

He turned their water into blood
And it killed their fish
A spoil of dyed garments to Sisera
A spoil of dyed garments of embroidery

So would they do to all Israel
Who came there in Shiloh.
From the blood of the slain and the captives
From the first breach of the enemy

You raised the right hand of his adversaries
You caused all his enemies to rejoice

He sent darkness and it darkened,
And they did not disobey His word.
In order that they see the bread that I fed you
In the desert when I took you out of the land of Egypt

They placed upon them the words of His signs
And His miracles in the land of Ham.
Moses said, "This is the thing that the Lord commanded
Let one omerful of it be preserved for your generations"

The house of Israel named it manna
And it was like coriander seed
[It was] white, and it tasted like a wafer with honey
Praise is befitting to the straight.

Week 43 (Book 7): The Cat Is Saying
The Cat Is Saying

I have pursued my enemies and overtaken them
And I did not return until they were destroyed.
Sing out praise, O you nations, for His people!
For He will avenge the blood of His servants

Inflict revenge upon His adversaries,
And appease His land [and] His people.
Their land swarmed with frogs
In the rooms of their monarchs.

And [they] would say to the man who slaughtered,
'Give meat to roast for the priest,
And he will not take from you cooked meat, but raw.
Dyed garments of embroidery for the neck of the spoiler.'

If you rise up like a vulture, and place your nest among the stars,
From there I shall bring you down, says G-d.
Then I ground them as the dust of the earth,
As the mud of the streets I did tread upon them, I did stamp them down.

You even turned back the sharp edge of his sword,
And You did not raise him up in battle.
So may perish all Your enemies, O Lord;
But they that love Him [are] as the sun when it goes forth in its might.

He commanded and a mixture of noxious beasts came,
Lice throughout all their boundary.
Also, before they would make the fat smoke,
And the servant of the priest would come,

And Moses said to Aaron, take one jug and put there an omerful of manna,
And deposit it before the Lord to be preserved for your generations.
He made their rains into hail, flaming fire in their land.
Who is this coming up from the desert, embracing her beloved?

As the Lord had commanded Moses,
Aaron deposited it before the testimony to be preserved.
Under the apple tree I aroused you; there your mother was in travail with you;
There she that bore you was in travail.

Week 44 (Book 7): The Mouse Is Saying
The Mouse Is Saying

And the children of Israel did that which displeased the Lord
And the Lord delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years
You are just for all that comes upon me
For You have acted truthfully, and I have been wicked

And (if) the man said to him, 'Let them make the fat smoke now
and (then) take for yourself, as your soul desires'
He spoke and locusts came, and nibbling locusts without number
The omer is one tenth of an ephah

And he would say, 'No, but now you shall give
And if not, I shall take by force'
And they consumed all grass in their land
And they consumed the produce of their soil

Its coals are coals of fire of a great flame!
And You have allowed me to escape
From the contenders among my people
And the land rested forty years

And the children of Israel ate the manna for forty years
Until they came to an inhabited land
They ate the manna until they came
To the border of the land of Canaan

You have brought an end to his shining
And his throne You have cast down to earth
And it struck their vines and their fig trees
And it broke the trees of their boundary

And Moses came and spoke all the words of this song
Into the ears of the people he and Hoshea the son of Nun
You shall keep me as head of nations
A people whom I have not known serve me

Place me like a seal on your heart, liked a seal on your arm,
For love is as strong as death, zeal is as strong as the grave;
I shall exalt you, G-d, for You have uplifted me
and You have not let my enemies rejoice over me.


Week 45 (Book 7): The Creeping Creatures Are Saying
The Creeping Creatures are saying

Let Israel rejoice in He Who made him
May G-d rejoice in His works
Many waters cannot quench the love
Nor can rivers flood it

Let the children of Zion be joyful in their King
The entire community of the children of Israel journeyed
And Moses finished speaking all these words to all Israel
As soon as their ears hear, they obey me

And He smote every firstborn in their land
The first of all their strength
May the glory of G-d endure forever
From the Desert of S'in to their travels

By the mandate of the Lord
They encamped in Rephidim
And Amalek, and those of the east
And they came up upon it

And the sin of the lads was great before the Lord
You have shortened the days of his youth
You have enwrapped him with shame forever
And there was no water for the people to drink

Strangers lie to me; "Why do you test the Lord?"
Should a man give all the property of his house for love
They would despise him
For the men despised the offering of the Lord

And they said, Give us water that we may drink
Moses said to them, "Why do you quarrel with me?"
Because of Midian the children of Israel made for themselves
And it was, when Israel had sown, that Midian came up

So the people quarreled with Moses
And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel
Egypt rejoiced with their departure
For their fear had fallen upon them

The dens which are in the mountains
And the caves and the strongholds
And He took them out with silver and gold
And there was no pauper among their tribes

Week 46 (Book 7): The Prolific Creeping Creatures Are Saying
The Prolific Creeping Creatures are saying:

We have a little sister who has no breasts
What shall we do for our sister on the day she is spoken for?
Your wife shall be like a fruitful vine in the recesses of your house
Your children like olive shoots around your table

So that you may command your children
To observe to do all the words of this Torah
And Samuel was serving before the Lord
Being a lad girded with a linen robe

The people thirsted there for water,
And the people complained against Moses
Both they and their camels without number
And they came into the land to destroy it

And they said, "Why have you brought us up from Egypt
To make me and my children and my livestock die of thirst?"
The strangers will wilt,
And become lame from their bondage

And they encamped against them,
And they destroyed the produce of the earth
Until you come to Gaza
Moses cried out to the Lord

Saying, "What shall I do for this people?"
Just a little longer and they will stone me!
They would leave no sustenance in Israel
Neither sheep, nor ox, nor donkey

He spread out a cloud for shelter
And fire to illuminate the night
For they and their cattle came up, and their tents
And they came as numerous as locusts

They asked, and He brought quails, and the bread of heaven sated them
He opened a rock and water flowed; in the deserts ran rivers
And he said to them, set your hearts to all of the words
Which I bear witness for you this day.


Week 47 (Book 7): The Snake is Saying
The Snake is saying,

I am mindful what my old age is;
For what futility have You created all the sons of man?
If she be a wall, we will build upon her a silver turret,
And if she be a door, we will enclose her with cedar boards.

For it is not an empty thing for you, for it is your life,
And through this thing, you will lengthen your days
For He remembered His holy word with Abraham His servant.
And a small robe his mother would make for him,

And the children of Israel cried to the Lord.
Now it was when the children of Israel cried to the Lord concerning Midian,
When she ascended with her husband, to slaughter the sacrifice of the (festive) days.
And she would bring it up to him from appointed time to appointed time,

G-d supports all the fallen, and straightens all the bent.
And take into your hand your staff,
With which you struck the Nile, and go
Upon the land to which you are crossing over the Jordan, to possess it.

And He took out His people with joy,
His chosen ones with joyful singing.
And the Lord said to Moses, Pass before the people
And take with you [some] of the elders of Israel,

Moses did so before the eyes of the elders of Israel.
And Israel was very impoverished because of Midian,
And He gave them lands of nations,
And they inherited the toil of kingdoms.

Behold, I shall stand there before you on the rock in Horeb,
And you shall strike the rock, and water will come out of it, and the people will drink
The Lord lives, and blessed be my Rock;
And exalted be the G-d, [who is] my rock of salvation.

Week 48 (Book 7): The Scorpion Is Saying
The Scorpion Is Saying,

Who is a man who will live and not see death?
Who will rescue his soul from the grasp of the grave forever?
He named the place Massah [testing] and Meribah [quarreling]
Because of the quarrel of the children of Israel

For there our captors asked us for words of song
And our tormentors [asked of us] mirth
"Sing for us of the song of Zion"
Amalek came and fought with Israel in Rephidim

And because of their testing the Lord, saying
Is the Lord in our midst or not?
Because of the request which he had requested of the Lord
And they would go to his place

By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat
We also wept when we remembered Zion
And may he reign from sea to sea
And from the river to the ends of the land

G-d is good to all, and His mercy is upon all of His handiwork
And the Lord spoke to Moses on that very day, saying
That the Lord sent a prophet to the children of Israel
And he said to them, "Thus says the Lord, G-d of Israel"

The G-d who takes vengeance for me
And brings down peoples under me
I brought you up from Egypt
And I brought you out of the house of bondage

And I saved you from the hand of Egypt
And from the hand of all your oppressors
And I drove them out from before you
And I have given you their land

May the righteous flourish in his days
And much peace until there is no moon
May it descend as rain upon cut vegetation
As raindrops that drip upon the earth

On willows in its midst we hung our harps
And Eli would bless Elkanah and his wife, and he would say
"May the Lord grant you seed from this woman"
In order that they keep His statutes and observe His laws. Hallelujah.

Week 49 (Book 7): The Snail is Saying
 B"H


The Snail is saying,

Go up this Mount Avarim [to] Mount Nebo,
Which is in the land of Moab, that is facing Jericho,
So Moses said to Joshua, Pick men for us,
With the staff of G-d in my hand.

And the angel of the Lord came,
You have lifted me; from the violent man You deliver me.
He gave the vineyard to the keepers;
For the Lord remembered Hannah, and she conceived

Joshua did as Moses had told him, to fight against Amalek;
A stillborn of a mole that does not see the sun
You shall not fear the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell.
And see the Land of Canaan, which I am giving

And go out and fight against Amalek.
Like the snail that melts away,
To the children of Israel as a possession,
And above those that rise against me,

Tomorrow I will stand on top of the hill
And I said to you, 'I am the Lord your G-d,
And that brings me forth from my enemies;
But you have not obeyed me.

If I forget you, O Jerusalem, may my right hand forget [its skill].
Where are Your former acts of kindness, O Lord,
To be enabled to flee from Midian.
And bore three sons and two daughters.

How shall we sing the song of the Lord on foreign soil?
Each one brought for the fruit thereof one thousand pieces of silver.
That belonged to Joash the Abiezrite;
Which You swore to David in your trust

And Moses, Aaron, and Hur ascended to the top of the hill.
And sat under the oak which was in Ophra,
And the lad Samuel grew up with the Lord.
Solomon had a vineyard in Baal-Hamon;

If I do not bring up Jerusalem at the beginning of my joy


Week 50 (Book 7): The Ant is Saying
 B"H

The Ant is saying,

Go to the ant, you sluggard;
Consider her ways and be wise.
And the angel of the Lord appeared and said to him,
"The Lord is with you, mighty man of valor."

Now, Eli had become very old,
Now Moses hands were heavy;
And Gideon said to him, "Please my lord, if the Lord be with us,
And to your name I will sing praises.

And he heard all that his sons were doing to all Israel,
And when he would lay down his hand, Amalek would prevail.
Remember, O Lord, the disgrace of Your servants,
So they took a stone and placed it under him, and he sat on it.

And was gathered to his people.
Why then has all this befallen us?
Remember, O Lord, for the sons of Edom,
And He has delivered us into the hand of Midian.

O Daughter of Babylon, who is destined to be plundered,
But now the Lord has forsaken us,
One from this [side], and one from that [side];
'Did not the Lord bring us up from Egypt?'

And where are all His wonders which our forefathers told us, saying,
Which I bear in my bosom, [the disgrace] of all great nations.
Praiseworthy is he who will take and dash your infants against the rock.
And die on the mountain upon which you are climbing


You, O Solomon, shall have the thousand,
And those who watch its fruit, two hundred.
The day of Jerusalem, those who say,
Raze it, raze it, down to its foundation!

Just as your brother Aaron died on Mount Hor
Aaron and Hur supported his hands,
My vineyard, which is mine, is before me;
Therefore I will give thanks to You, O' Lord, among the nations.

It came to pass that when Moses would raise his hand,
And be gathered to your people,
At the entrance of the tent of meeting.
Israel would prevail

And that they would lie with the women who congregated
Praiseworthy is he who repays you
Your recompense that you have done to us.
So he was with his hands in faith until sunset.


Week 51 (Book 7): The Wiesel is Saying

The Weasel is saying,

And he said to them: Why do you do the likes of these things,
Because you betrayed Me in the midst of the children of Israel
Which Your enemies disgraced, O Lord,
That I will surely obliterate the remembrance of Amalek from beneath the heavens

For I hear evil reports about you, from all these people.
At the waters of Merivath Kadesh, the desert of Zin,
Which they disgraced the ends of Your anointed.
Because you did not sanctify Me in the midst of the children of Israel.

And the Lord turned toward him and said,
The Lord said to Moses, Inscribe this [as] a memorial in the book,
He gives great salvation to His king,
And He performs kindness to His anointed;

Let every soul praise G-d, Halleluyah!
Hallelujah! Praise G-d in His holy place,
Praise Him in the firmament of His might.
To David and to his seed, forevermore.

Joshua weakened Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword.
"Go, with this your strength, and save Israel from the hand of Midian.
And recite it into Joshua's ears,
Have I not sent you?"

You, who sit in the gardens the friends hearken to your voice;  Let me hear [it].
And he said to Him, "Please O Lord, with what shall I save Israel?
Praise Him with His mighty deeds,
Praise Him as befits His superb greatness.

Behold, my thousand is the poorest in Menasseh,
And I am the youngest in my father's household."
Praise Him with a shofar blast,
Praise Him with psaltery and lyre.


Week 52 (Book 7): The Dogs Are Saying
 B"H

The Dogs are saying:

Come, let us worship and bow down;
Let us kneel before G-d our Maker.
Let every soul praise G-d. Hallelujah!
Blessed is the Lord forever. Amen and Amen.

Praise Him with timbres and dance,
And he said to them, "Set your hearts to all of the words
Which I bear witness for you this day,
And the Lord said to him, "Because I shall be with you,

Praise Him with stringed instruments and flute.
So that you may command your children
To observe to do all the words of this Torah.
And you shall strike Midian as one man."

Praise Him with resounding cymbals,
The strangers will wilt, and become lame from their bondage.
A war for the Lord against Amalek from generation to generation.
For the Lord desired to kill them.

Flee, my beloved, and liken yourself to a gazelle
Or to a fawn of the hinds on the spice mountains."
No, my sons, for the rumor
Which I hear the Lord's people spreading, is not good.

And he said, For there is a hand on the throne of the Eternal,
But they would not hearken to their father's voice,
And he said to Him, "If I have now found favor in your eyes,
If man will sin to man, the judge will judge him.

Then show me a sign that it is You that speaks with me.
If, however, he will sin against God,
Who will intercede in the judgment in his behalf?"
Then Moses built an altar, and he named it

Praise Him with resonant cymbals.
And the lad, Samuel, was growing up,
And bettering himself both with the Lord and with people.
The Lord is my miracle.
